pyspkac: Routines for supporting netscape / html5 SPKAC
=======================================================

:Author: Ralf Schlatterbeck <rsc@runtux.com>

This library supports the format of browser-generated SPKAC certificate
requests.

The HTML `keygen`_ tag which previously was supported by most
Mozilla-based browsers is now in the HTML-5 standard. The keygen tag is
used in a HTML form element and displays a key generation widget to the
user. When submitted, the browser locally generates a public key pair,
locally stores the private key, and submits the public key to the web
server in the `SPKAC`_ format.

.. _`keygen`: http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/forms.html#the-keygen-element
.. _`SPKAC`:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spkac

When generating a form with a keygen element, the web server can include
a challenge string in the form. This challenge string is returned in the
SPKAC generated by the browser. It is signed together with the public
key by the private key retained by the browser.

This package is intended for server-side support of SPKAC. It uses a
submitted SPKAC and checks for correct challenge string and that the
public key and challenge are properly signed by the browser. It supports
a method for generating a certificate from the data in the SPKAC and
additional data supplied by the web application.

The generated certificate can then typically be used for client
authentication to a web application and is therefore called a client
certificate. The web browser (or other client-side application) supplies
the certificate in the SSL handshake and proves it is in the posession
of the necessary private key.

Installation
------------

Install using the standard python setup.py mechanism, e.g.::

 python setup.py install --prefix=/usr/local

You need `pyasn1`_ and `M2Crypto`_ installed for this package to work.

.. _`pyasn1`:   http://pyasn1.sourceforge.net/
.. _`M2Crypto`: http://chandlerproject.org/Projects/MeTooCrypto

Examples
--------

For a usage example see the end of `spkac.py`_

.. _`spkac.py`: https://github.com/FFM/pyspkac/blob/master/pyspkac/spkac.py
